hello friends welcome to Hilah cooking I
am a little bit hungover today from the
Austin blogger Awards last night so
forgive me as I fumbled but I also
thought that I might make some potato
latkes today because they were good for
breakfast my dad used to make him me for
breakfast when I was a kid I think he
called him potato pancakes probably but
also Tonica so perfect combination
yay potatoes
okay so the first thing I'm gonna do is
grate some potatoes this is a pound of
potatoes it'll probably end up being
about two cups once it's graded and I'm
going to go ahead and grade it on this
cloth so that then afterwards we can
squeeze some of the water out on the
cloth okay
okay so I'm going to flip it around and
do the last little potato on the smaller
side and having some smaller pieces in
there I'll help them hold together a
little better okay there's a whole lot
of potato and they turn a little Brown
because of oxidation but you're gonna
fry it anyway so it's gonna be browner
all right so yeah I would say that's
probably closer to three cups of grated
potato if you don't have a scale now I'm
gonna just throw this over and mash them
you water comes out I don't want to
rinse them off because I want to keep
the potato starch but I want to get rid
of some of the liquid the starch will
help hold everything together okay it's
probably good don't need to go crazy all
right now I will mix this in the bowl
with everything else except the oil of
course because that's for frying so
potatoes in
Oh Lord they're stuck you can use paper
towel too but you know how I feel about
paper towels so I just got this out of
the dirty clothes
just kidding it's clean okay so onion
and one egg
okay so I minced garlic you can leave
that out but I like it
and some salt I'm gonna mix it together
with this fork and I've got this a
little bit of flour here in case we need
it if it seems kind of watering it can
add a little bit of flour but pressing
the moisture out should alleviate that
issue okay
and this looks well mixed so I'm gonna
let that just sit there while I heat up
the skillet I'm gonna get pretty hot and
I'm gonna use kind of a lot of oil more
than I usually used when I cook things
because that's part of the deal okay so
about a quarter cup of oil maybe and set
them down and flatten it out a little
bit and the thicker they are I mean you
want them thicker rather than thinner I
think they hold together better
although he had to set the fire oh I'm
off again today I think
all right so I've got this on high but
I'm going to actually turn it down to
like a medium high because I don't want
the bottom to get too Brown before the
potatoes are actually cooked through so
I guess the deal with Hanukkah according
to my internet research which is
infallible as we all know like something
about magical oil lasted eight nights
instead of one and in honor of that oil
you're kind of sanctioned by the
religion to eat fried foods for eight
days which my book pretty cool so like
donuts and fried potato cakes and stuff
like that there's probably other stuff
too but that's like I guess the
traditional reasoning behind using so
much oil you probably could do this with
some spray oil or something if you're
like conscious of your health chime
thrown my help still win here today
people um the smells really good though
it smells like frying potatoes and fried
onions and I'm looking forward to eating
them so I'm just making sure they're not
sticking everything's moving so I don't
know if you can see like the the cooking
different differentiation here like this
outer edge starting to look more yellow
instead of white and a little bit
translucent instead of opaque and that's
like that's what potatoes do and they
cook so that's what you're kind of
looking forward to know when to flip
them it's when the edges all the way up
are starting to be soft so I think some
of these are probably ready to flip
look at that golden brown deliciousness
whoa dude looks delicious
all right I'm gonna take that one off
all right so these are done I'm gonna
take them off and I have some sour cream
and apple sauce to serve with them which
is good and traditional I'm going to
just put a little on this plate and then
try one okay
okay
mmm that's really good
that means been think of when I was a
kid and having those for breakfast with
my cosmopolitan and daddy um all right
well I'm gonna eat these they're very
delicious and crunchy and similar to
hash browns but better for some reason
um okay so I'll see you soon you'll see
me soon and Happy Hanukkah everyone